Summary of What to Learn
Windows x64 (MASM/NASM): Essential if you want to understand malware analysis or game modding on PCs.
Linux AMD64 (NASM/Intel Syntax): Often considered the best "starting point" because the environment is very assembly-friendly.
Linux ARM64: Critical for mobile development, IoT, and modern cloud servers.


Windows x64 Assembly

Registers:
Note: There are acctually two different syntaxes ( syntax style or call "Flavor") for assembly, intel and AT&T, i will focus on Intel for now. But keep note that AT&T is more commonly used for Linux (?)
Both Intel and AT&T syntaxes are used to write instructions for the same underlying processor (like an x86 or x86-64 chip). 


In a process of a c program, you may know that the compiler must convert it to assembly language so computer can understand.

In windows, assembly file code can be:
- Source code : Contain human readable assembly instruction
Can be .asm, .s, .S, .inc

- Compiled & Intermediate ext: when source code is processed by an assembler, it is saved into binary file to keep the instruction
Can be .exe, .obj, .dll and .lst

Special case .NET assemblies

Small example: ( but i haven't try it on myy pc, maybe i should try later ! )
---
nasm
; hello.asm - 64-bit Windows Hello World (NASM)
extern MessageBoxA
extern ExitProcess

section .data
    caption db 'Assembly Example', 0
    message db 'Hello, this is a small source code!', 0

section .text
    global main
main:
    ; Register-based calling convention for x64 Windows (Shadow Space)
    sub rsp, 28h          ; Reserve 40 bytes of shadow space on stack
    
    mov rcx, 0            ; HWND hWnd = NULL
    mov rdx, message      ; LPCSTR lpText
    mov r8, caption       ; LPCSTR lpCaption
    mov r9, 0             ; UINT uType = MB_OK
    call MessageBoxA      ; Call the Windows API
    
    mov rcx, 0            ; UINT uExitCode = 0
    call ExitProcess      ; Exit the program
---
To turn this into a program we need an assembler and a linker
First assembler
nasm -f win64 hello.asm -o hello.obj
Second link
link hello.obj /subsystem:windows /entry:main user32.lib kernel32.lib /out:hello.exe

Let move deeper into the code it self.
The register:
General purpose registers: in the CPU, each core can have its own general purpose registers, which is it own storage space which is extremely fast. When doing certain task, the cpu will try to put data in there
instead of memory because it a lot faster for cpu to access data in register when compare to memory. If the data is too large to fit in a register, a register will hold a pointer to the data so it can be accessed.


There are 8 main general purpose registers

RAX - Known as the accumulator register. Often used to store the return value of a function.
RBX - Sometimes known as the base register, not to be confused with the base pointer. Sometimes used as a base pointer for memory access.
RDX - Sometimes known as the data register.
RCX - Sometimes known as the counter register. Used as a loop counter.
RSI - Known as the source index. Used as the source pointer in string operations.
RDI - Known as the destination index. Used as the destination pointer in string operations.
RSP - The stack pointer. Holds the address of the top of the stack.
RBP - The base pointer. Holds the address of the base (bottom) of the stack.

Moreover, each register doesn't have to hold these type of data, but it gonna be extremely helpful when us and computer follow the rule to know where is value of a function went.
There are additional registers r8 to r15 which are designed to be used by integer type values and don't have any special uses
More info in microsoft.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/x64-architecture#registers

Register break down
For code from older architecture still work on new CPU, the register can break downs from 64 to 32,16 or 8
With register break downs, it also help to perform operations on smaller data types (like bytes) without needing to load a full 64-bit word, speeding up arithmetic and logical operations
Optimized Compiler Usage: Compilers use register breakdown to efficiently allocate variables, reducing the need to access slow main memory

RAX is 64 bits, the lower 32 bits can be referenced with EAX, and the lower 16 bits can be referenced with AX. 
AX is broken down into two 8 bit portions. The high/upper 8 bits of AX can be referenced with AH. The lower 8 bits can be referenced with AL.

Different data type
To hold floating point value, we need other kind of registers, these registers include YMM0 to YMM15 (64-bit) and XMM0 to XMM15 (32-bit). 
The XMM registers are the lower half of the YMM registers, similar to how EAX is the lower 32 bits of RAX.
Something unique about these registers is that they can be treated as arrays. In other words, they can hold multiple values. 
For example, YMM# registers are 256-bit wide each and can hold 4 64-bit values or 8 32-bit values. 
Similarly, the XMM# registers are 128-bits wide and can hold 2 64-bit values or 4 32-bit values.
Special instructions are needed to utilize these registers as vectors.


Calling convention

When calling a function, theoretically, you could pass parameter via register, stack or even on disk. However, you need to be sure the function know the order and location
of each parameters you pass and value you get from it. 
This isn't too big of a problem if you are using your own functions, but things would get messy when you start using libraries. 
To solve this problem we have calling conventions that define how parameters are passed to a function, who allocates space for variables, and who cleans up the stack.

Callee refers to the function being called (child), and the caller is the function making the call(parent).
There are several different calling conventions including cdecl, syscall, stdcall, fastcall, and more. 
We are focus on x64 Windows for simplicity, we will be working with x64 fastcall. ( amd64 and arm64 in linux is quiet different, like more "aggressive" type of call)

Fastcall is the calling convention for x64 Windows. Windows uses a four-register fastcall calling convention by default. 
Quick FYI, when talking about calling conventions you will hear about something called the "Application Binary Interface" (ABI). 
The ABI defines various rules for programs such as calling conventions, parameter handling, and more.

How does the x64 Windows calling convention work?

The first four parameters are passed in registers, LEFT to RIGHT. 

Parameters that are not floating-point values, such as integers, pointers, and chars, will be passed via RCX, RDX, R8, and R9 (in that order). 
Floating-point parameters will be passed via XMM0, XMM1, XMM2, and XMM3 (in that order).

If there is a mix of floating-point and integer values, they will still be passed via the register that corresponds to their position. 
For example, func(1, 3.14, 6, 6.28) will pass the first parameter through RCX, the second through XMM1, the third through R8, and the last through XMM3.

If the parameter being passed is too big to fit in a register then it is passed by reference (a pointer to the data in memory). 
Parameters can be passed via any sized corresponding register. 

For example, RCX, ECX, CX, CH, and CL can all be used for the first parameter. Any other parameters are pushed onto the stack, RIGHT to LEFT. ( from the right to the left of the remaining parameter are pushed into the stack)


There is always going to be space allocated on the stack for 4 parameters, even if there aren't any parameters. 
This space isn't completely wasted because the compiler can, and often will, use it. 
Usually, if it's a debug build, the compiler will put a copy of the parameters in the space. 
On release builds, the compiler will use it for temporary or local variable storage.


Here are some more rules of the calling convention:

The base pointer (RBP) is saved when a function is called so it can be restored.
A function's return value is passed via RAX if it's an integer, bool, char, etc., or XMM0 if it's a float or double.
Member functions have an implicit first parameter for the "this" pointer. Because it's a pointer and it's the first parameter, it will be passed via RCX. This can be very useful to know.
The caller is responsible for allocating space for parameters for the callee. The caller must always allocate space for 4 parameters even if no parameters are passed.

Example: When you call myObject.DoSomething(int a), the machine code effectively treats it as DoSomething(&myObject, a)
&myObject goes into RCX.
a goes into RDX.
The stack pointer drops by 32 bytes just in case the function wants to save those values to memory.

The registers RAX, RCX, RDX, R8, R9, R10, R11, and XMM0-XMM5 are considered volatile and must be considered destroyed on function calls.
The registers RBX, RBP, RDI, RSI, RSP, R12, R13, R14, R15, and XMM6-XMM15 are considered nonvolatile and should be saved and restored by a function that uses them.


Instructions
There are roughly 1,500 instructions, however, a majority of the instructions are not commonly used or they're just variations (such as MOV and MOVS).
Just like in high-level programming, don't hesitate to look up something you don't know.

In small example above,
MOV RCX , 0
MOV is an instructions, RCX is destination, and 0 is openrand
We can write value from register to memory destination
Reg to Mem :	mov [address], rax
mov [var], rax
But you cannot move data directly from memory to memory, which mean:
MOV [address] , [rbx] ; if rbx is having memory address, it is invalid, cause complication error, (simple explain is that : in x86-64 architecture, a mov can only have at most one memory openrand )
Common instruction:
MOV set value of dest from openrand

LEA is short for load effective address, it is commonly used for computing addresses, but the big different between LEA and MOV is that LEA is not dereference
LEA register, [source]

In RBX, we are having the address of a
LEA RBX , a
if we use
MOV RAX, RBX ; rax will get the address of a
MOV RAX, [RBX]; this is dereference !!!, rax will get the value of the address inside rbx. If we perform calculation here, it will do it with the address, not the value of that address !
LEA RAX, [RBX] ; same as mov, but we can perform calculation in the bracket, like add or sub, which speed up the instruction 



in RBX, we have value 5
MOV RBX, 5
if we use
MOV RAX, RBX ; RAX =5
LEA RAX, RBX ; error
LEA RAX, [RBX] ; the rax will have value 5, but we also can perform calculation in the bracket, like add or sub, But it does not change the CPU's condition flags (like the zero or carry flags).

Push and pop: Stack is directly supported by cpu, have dedicated pointer RSP
PUSH RAX ; it will push data inside RAX onto the stack, the register being pushed will keep it value
POP RBX ; it will put data on top of the stack to the RAX

MOV [RAX], [RBX]; is error ( almost same as LEA RAX, RBX )

Arithmetic:
add rax, 1 ; add 1 to rax, can trigger flags like normal ( Zero flag, sign flag, overflow flag and carry flag )
SUB rax, 1 ; sub 1 , same as add
INC: increase 1
inc RAX; increase value in RAX by one , can trigger flag but not carry flag
DEC: decrease 1
dec RAX; decrease value in rax by one , same as inc

MUL-T ( Multiplication , shout out to ROR2)
We have two kind of mul, MUL ( unsigned ) and IMUL ( signed )
MOV RAX, 5
MOV RBX, 10
MUL RBX ; the mul-t is perform with RAX by default, which it is hard-coded inside the cpu,
The value will be keep in RDX:RAX , the reason is when mul two 64 bits value, max value can get to 128 bit.
Divide
We also have two kinds of Divide, DIV and IDIV
MOV RAX, 15
MOV RBX, 20
DIV RBX ; the divide is perform with RAX by default, which is also hard-coded inside the cpu,
The value will be keep in RDX:RAX, but RAX will keep the Quotient (Result), while RDX is the remainder

Noted: when perform Mul-t and divide, we need to make sure the value in rdx is not needed anymore
Remainder divide is need some of your thought:

Because the CPU expects a "double-wide" dividend (like RDX:RAX), you must ensure RDX is prepared before you run div.
Unsigned (div): You usually need to clear RDX first (e.g., xor rdx, rdx) so it doesn't contain leftover "junk" that would ruin your math.
Signed (idiv): You should use an instruction like cqo (Convert Quadword to Octword), which automatically fills RDX with the sign bits of RAX. 

( there are also divide and mul-t with floating point value, they have several differences ! ) ?

Flow control:
To understand flow control, we need to know:
RIP : register instruction pointer, is a important register, you never manually mov value into it, it holds the address of next instruction the cpu will executed
-- Normally, the CPU just adds a few bytes to RIP after every instruction to move to the next line.
(
Why :
Sequential Code Flow: Most code is executed in order (top to bottom). Automatically adding the instruction length to RIP is the most efficient way to proceed to the next line without needing a specific "jump to next line" instruction.
Variable Instruction Lengths: x86-64 instructions are not a fixed size; they can vary in length. The CPU decodes the current instruction first to determine its size, then adds that specific length to RIP.
Performance (Pipelining): Modern CPUs use pipelines to fetch multiple instructions ahead of time. Knowing the next address (RIP + length) allows the processor to fetch subsequent instructions from the cache while the current one is still executing.
Exceptions (Control Flow): If the instruction is a jump, branch, or function call, the CPU overrides this default increment and sets the RIP to a new address. Otherwise, it defaults to the next sequential address.
Position Independent Code (PIC): In 64-bit mode, the CPU uses "RIP-relative addressing." The instructions use the current RIP as a base address to find data, which allows code to run regardless of where it is loaded in memory.
)
-- Instructions like ret, jmp, and call are special because they are the only ways to "force" a new value into the RIP to change where the code is running. ( which is flow control )

How call and ret Work Together
These two instructions are just a "polite" way to jump to a function and come back. 

when it start to call my_function:
It pushes the address of the very next line (the "return address") onto the stack.
It then jumps (changes RIP) to my_function location.
then when it ret:
It pops whatever is on top of the stack and puts it directly into the RIP.
The CPU then looks at RIP and starts executing code from that new address.
--
RIP-Relative Addressing
In 64-bit Windows, programs can be loaded into different parts of memory every time they run (a security feature called ASLR). 
Because the absolute address of secret_code might change, we use RIP-relative addressing.
lea rax, [rel secret_code]: 
rel: A keyword (often used in NASM) that forces Position-Independent Code (PIC) by using an offset relative to the current Instruction Pointer (RIP).
-> This tells the assembler: "Calculate where secret_code is relative to where we are right now (the RIP) and put that address into rax"
------
RET is short for return, but it not exactly like return in higher language (i confused with it in tryhackme ( which said it is like return 10) so i want to explain clearly for you)

To explain ret further, let look at this small example
First, returning from a Procedure: 
; --- MAIN PROGRAM ---
main PROC
    mov rcx, 5          ; Put 5 in RCX (Standard 1st argument in Windows)
    
    call SquareIt       ; 1. Pushes the address of the next line (mov [res], rax) 
                        ;    onto the stack, then jumps to 'SquareIt'.

    mov [result], rax   ; 4. Execution resumes here. RAX now contains 25.
    ret                 ; Exit main
main ENDP

; --- SUBROUTINE ---
SquareIt PROC
    mov rax, rcx        ; Copy input (5) to RAX
    imul rax, rax       ; RAX = 5 * 5 = 25
    
    ret                 ; 3. Pops the return address from the stack and 
                        ;    jumps back to the instruction after the 'call'.
SquareIt ENDP

The different is, it is not return 25 (value in rax), it pops whatever is on top of the stack and puts it directly into the RIP, which is the address of original caller of this function
and value in rax is kept during this process and can be processed by original function (which in this example, is saved to result)

So in this example, we should also explain call, but as explain above, it pushes the address of the very next line (the "return address") onto the stack.
then jumps (changes RIP) to SquareIt location.
Which then can be ret to go back to the original caller !

Noted: Because flow control is also involving in manipulating stack, we should be mindful when push or pop, or it will mess up the flow of your proggram.
--
Second: Stack Cleanup: While the standard Windows x64 Calling Convention typically requires the caller to clean up the stack, ret n can be used to pop an additional n bytes from the stack upon returning ( the stack will increase in size when sub, decrease in size when add more space to it) so in this.
ret n mean Pops the return address to rip AND then adds n to RSP

sometimes you can see

sub rsp, 28h
and
add rsp, 28h
inside a function, what is this mean
This two instruction is manipulating the stacks (to manipulating the flow of instruction)
The sub rsp, 28h is adding 'empty' 40 bits space to the stack (rs pointer go down). But why 40 bits you ask, that because:
before call a function, address of next instruction after the call in main is pushed on top of the stack, which is 8 bits only, so additional 8 is for padding the remaining 8 to get to 16, and 32 bit is enough to keep two 16-bits addresses or four 8-bits addresses.
there space (shadow space) can be use to be additional temporary space to save value in a function, to save register arguments. for the function, or can be retrieved from the main.
after that,
add rsp 28h ; will let us rsp back to the address of next instruction after the call.

-> so the main different is the space to keep the input value for the function.
-> To have more understanding, look at calling conventions - fastcall too!

--

CMP - compare
compare two openrands and trigger flags base on the result, like
mov rax, 5
cmp rax, 5 ; will set the zf (zero-flag to 1) because it equal

Jump - There are many kind of jump, and each type is trigger base on the flags are currently set.
Like:
JNE will jump if the comparison is not equal, and JLE jumps if less than or equal, JG jumps if greater, etc.
-- example
mov RAX, 5
cmp RAX, 5
jne 5 ; Jump to line 5 (ret) if not equal.
mov RBX, 10
ret

NOP -  do nothing, it is typically used for padding because some parts of code like to be on specific boundaries such as 16-bit or 32-bit boundaries.

Zero extension
MOV RAX, EBX
If we move 32 last bits of RBX , the upper 32 bits of RAX will be kept, so if you want to also set the upper 32-bits to zero
MOVZX RAX, EBX

JA (jump if above) and JG ( jump if greater) , JB (jump if below) and JL ( jump if less)
When compare, we need to consider it is signed or not, so JA and JB is for unsigned, JG and JL for signed
Example
mov eax, -1     ; In memory, this is 0xFFFFFFFF
mov ebx, 1      ; In memory, this is 0x00000001
then
cmp eax, ebx 
If:
ja some_address ; this will jump
But if:
jg some_address ; this will not jump

Flags are used to show info of the last operation or comparation, there are actually a flag register (16 bits) , you can look up in wiki

Here are the flags you should know. Note that when I say a "flag is set" I mean the flag is set to 1 which is true/on. 0 is false/off.

Zero Flag (ZF) - Set if the result of an operation is zero. Not set if the result of an operation is not zero.
Carry Flag (CF) - Set if the last unsigned arithmetic operation carried (addition) or borrowed (subtraction) a bit beyond the register. It's also set when an operation would be negative if it wasn't for the operation being unsigned.
Overflow Flag (OF) - Set if a signed arithmetic operation is too big for the register to contain.
Sign Flag (SF) - Set if the result of an operation is negative.
Adjust/Auxiliary Flag (AF) - Same as the carry flag but for Binary Coded Decimal (BCD) operations.
Parity Flag (PF) - Set to 1 if the number of bits set in the last 8 bits is even. (10110100, PF=1; 10110101, PF=0)
Trap Flag (TF) - Allows for single-stepping of programs.

Note: In overflow addition, it will set both overflow flag and sign flag

Windows x64 calling convention
Fastcall is the calling convention for x64 Windows. Windows uses a four-register fastcall calling convention by default. Quick FYI, when talking about calling conventions you will hear about something called the "Application Binary Interface" (ABI). The ABI defines various rules for programs such as calling conventions, parameter handling, and more.

How does the x64 Windows calling convention work?
- The first four parameters are passed in registers, LEFT to RIGHT. Parameters that are not floating-point values, such as integers, pointers, and chars, will be passed via RCX, RDX, R8, and R9 (in that order). Floating-point parameters will be passed via XMM0, XMM1, XMM2, and XMM3 (in that order).
- If there is a mix of floating-point and integer values, they will still be passed via the register that corresponds to their position. For example, func(1, 3.14, 6, 6.28) will pass the first parameter through RCX, the second through XMM1, the third through R8, and the last through XMM3.
- If the parameter being passed is too big to fit in a register then it is passed by reference (a pointer to the data in memory). Parameters can be passed via any sized corresponding register. For example, RCX, ECX, CX, CH, and CL can all be used for the first parameter. Any other parameters are pushed onto the stack, RIGHT to LEFT.

There is always going to be space allocated on the stack for 4 parameters, even if there aren't any parameters. This space isn't completely wasted because the compiler can, and often will, use it. 
Usually, if it's a debug build, the compiler will put a copy of the parameters in the space. On release builds, the compiler will use it for temporary or local variable storage.

Here are some more rules of the calling convention:

The base pointer (RBP) is saved when a function is called so it can be restored.
- A function's return value is passed via RAX if it's an integer, bool, char, etc., or XMM0 if it's a float or double.
- Member functions have an implicit first parameter for the "this" pointer. Because it's a pointer and it's the first parameter, it will be passed via RCX. This can be very useful to know.
- The caller is responsible for allocating space for parameters for the callee. The caller must always allocate space for 4 parameters even if no parameters are passed.
- The registers RAX, RCX, RDX, R8, R9, R10, R11, and XMM0-XMM5 are considered volatile and must be considered destroyed on function calls.
- The registers RBX, RBP, RDI, RSI, RSP, R12, R13, R14, R15, and XMM6-XMM15 are considered nonvolatile and should be saved and restored by a function that uses them.

From here: But this is kind of different though, but indeed it can help with your understanding.
Stack Access
Data on the stack such as local variables and function parameters are often accessed with RBP or RSP. On x64 it's extremely common to see RSP used instead of RBP to access parameters. Remember that the first four parameters, even though they are passed via registers, still have space reserved for them on the stack. This space is going to be 32 bytes (0x20), 8 bytes for each of the 4 registers. Remember this because at some point you will see this offset when accessing parameters passed on the stack.

1-4 Parameters:
Arguments will be pushed via their respective registers, left to right. The compiler will likely use RSP+0x0 to RSP+0x18 for other purposes.
More Than 4 Parameters:
The first four arguments are passed via registers, left to right, and the rest are pushed onto the stack starting at offset RSP+0x20, right to left. This makes RSP+0x20 the fifth argument and RSP+0x28.
Here is a very simple example where the numbers 1 to 8 are passed from one function to another function. Notice the order they are put in.
For example:
function(1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8)
MOV RCX 0x1 ; Going left to right.
MOV RDX 0x2
MOV R8 0x3
MOV R9 0x4
PUSH 0x8 ; Now going right to left.
PUSH 0x7
PUSH 0x6
PUSH 0x5
Then Call function
( in tryhackme "In this case, the stack parameters should be accessed via RSP+0x20 to RSP+0x28." ) (let's explain this)
...
(um, i think i am confuse right know, but i still want to explain it, but i think tryhackme has been wrong all the way !)
so ...

--> I came up with a conclusion after take a look at x64 calling convention of microsoft, we should look at each instruction to see what does it do, in tryhackme, the stack parameters should be accessed via RSP+0x20 to RSP+0x28 is likely to be wrong if we finished like it
That because we doesn't push r9,r8,rdx and rcx before the call function, so it would be like
0x8
0x7
0x6
0x5
return_address (rsp)
and done, and it is indeed not "the stack parameters should be accessed via RSP+0x20 to RSP+0x28" but rather shorter addresses and we still can call it.
*But , tryhackme will be correct if in the function, we sub the rsp to move rsp down a little bit !

And it is still correct that more than 4 parameters, we push them into the stack.
*** Or tryhackme has been simplyfying thing for us, there is a rule in ABI:
If caller is about to call a function, they must responsible for creating a shadow space for it, but, it is not automatically done with only call function like tryhackme did for us
we must:
sub rsp,28h ;before we call a function to create shadow space for them !
then it would indeed can be look like that.

Memory layout:
Even though we have learn a little about stack, but you may don't know how the whole memory look like.

There are different segments/section in which are stored in memory

- Stack - Holds non-static local variables. Discussed more in-depth soon.
- Heap - Contains dynamically allocated data that can be uninitialized at first.
- .data - Contains global and static data initialized to a non-zero value.
- .bss - Contains global and static data that is uninitialized or initialized to zero.
- .text - Contains the code of the program.
*This is extremely simplified*
0x7FFFFFFF              Kernel space
                        Free space
                        Program image
                        Process environment blocks
                        Thread environment blocks 
                        Heap (Grow upward/increase )
                        Stack (Grow downward/decrease)
0x00000000
***
Important:
The diagram above shows the direction variables (and any named data, even structures) are put into or taken out of memory.
The actual data is put into memory differently. This is why stack diagrams vary so much. 
You'll often see stack diagrams with the stack and heap growing towards each other or high memory addresses at the top. I will explain more later.
The diagram I'm showing is the most relevant for reverse engineering. Low addresses being at the top is also the most realistic depiction.

Stack : Area in memory that can be used quickly for static data allocation. Imagine the stack with low addresses at the top and high addresses at the bottom. This is identical to a normal numerical list. 
Data is read and written as "last-in-first-out" (LIFO).When data is pushed onto the stack, the stack grows up, towards lower memory addresses. When you remove a piece of data off the top of the stack you pop it off the stack. When data is popped off the stack, the stack shrinks down, towards higher addresses. 

Heap : Similar to the stack but used for dynamic allocation and it's a little slower to access. The heap is typically used for data that is dynamic (changing or unpredictable).
Things such as structures and user input might be stored on the heap. If the size of the data isn't known at compile-time, it's usually stored on the heap. When you add data to the heap it grows towards higher addresses.

Program Image : This is the program/executable loaded into memory. On Windows, this is typically a Portable Executable (PE).

Don't worry too much about the TEB and PEB for now. This is just a brief introduction to them.

TEB - The Thread Environment Block (TEB) stores information about the currently running thread(s).
PEB - The Process Environment Block (PEB) stores information about the process and the loaded modules. One piece of information the PEB contains is "BeingDebugged" which can be used to determine if the current process is being debugged.
PEB Structure Layout: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winternl/ns-winternl-peb

Next gonna be about IDA 9.2 free.
Remember to check out the Stack and heap for data storage

***
But keep note that AT&T is more commonly used for Linux (?) ** what is AT&T ? 
Special case .NET assemblies (?) ** What is .NET assemblies ?
TEB and PEB ?
