In this act, we will focus on reverse engineering on Windows.
The IDA Overview:

The tryhackme is really good at giving us an overview for IDA freeware, i am really recommending you to read that.
https://tryhackme.com/room/windowsreversingintro
F5 to generate pseudo code
Spacebar to change between graph view and list view


Getting started with HelloWolrd.exe

In this file, we use both printf and std::cout to print out data, but they are kind of different.

printf()
The first parameter (passed via RCX) is the format string "%s\n", the second parameter (RDX) is the "Hello with..." string. Immediately after the two parameters is the call.

std::cout
We can identify it's std::cout without using the string printed to the console because we can see things related to cout, basic_ostream, and char_traits.
You may notice the names of the functions are quite odd as displayed in IDA. We will discuss this in the DLL section, but in short, the names are mangled for function overloading. 
For now, look past the name mangling. With that said, you may not be familiar with those functions so the first thing to do is look them up. 

Here's a brief overview of them all:

basic_ostream - C++ template for output streams.
char_traits - Provides some abstraction from basic character and string types.
cout - std::cout - Sends text to the console.

Analyze the loop.exe

Initial Analysis
To start let me introduce you to the best skill to develop as a reverse engineer. It's being able to skim over the unimportant stuff otherwise you'll waste your time and go into a rabbit hole.
In the graph view, we can see a big box at the top. Looking at it we can see that it mostly just prints stuff so we can skim through it just to make sure there's nothing important.
Looking towards the bottom of the big box, which I will refer to as the loop initialization part of the code, we can see some interesting stuff.

cmovnb : Conditional MOV if not below

Struct, class, array.

Arrays store multiple pieces of data which are the same type sequentially in memory. Let's say you have an array of 5 integers that starts at the address of 0x4000. 
The size of the array is 20 bytes since each integer is 4 bytes. The first integer is at 0x4000+0x0, the second is at 0x4000+0x04, and so on. Arrays are usually easy to analyze,
like the character array (string) we encountered in the loop task.

Classes
Classes can have multiple pieces of data which are of different types. This is what makes them harder to work with when reversing. To figure out the layout of a class, you will have to do some analysis.
You need to figure out not only how many things are in the class, but also their data types. There is quite an extensive number of ways to do this, 
but it generally comes down to just looking at the functions which use the class and paying close attention to how they use it. We will take a look at reverse engineering a class structure in a future room. For now, I'll give you a crash course.

Let's say we have the following class:

class Human {
public:
	int age;
	float height;
	char* name;
	Human(char* newName, int newAge, float newHeight)
		: age(newAge), height(newHeight), name(newName) {}
};
This class's data will take up 16 bytes. 4 bytes for the age, 4 bytes for the height, and 8 for the name (pointers hold addresses and addresses in x64 are 8 bytes). 
How would this be identified in assembly? Let's say a pointer to the class is contained in RAX, and the address of the class is 0x4000. Here's some pseudo-assembly:

mov RAX, 0x4000     ; RAX = Address of the class and the age variable (offset 0)
lea RBX, [RAX+0x4]  ; RBX = Address of height
lea RCX, [RAX+0x8]  ; RCX = Address of name
mov [RAX], 0x32     ; age = 50
mov [RBX], 0x48     ; height = 72
mov [RCX], 0x424F42 ; name = "BOB"

As you can see we have the base address stored in RAX, and the items of the class are accessed via offsets. One of the things to pay attention to when dealing with classes is the use of addresses/pointers and the lea instruction.
This is done because you usually want to access the data in the class, not a copy of it.

Dealing with classes is usually not too bad, but sometimes you aren't given the full class. For example, it's common for some parts of a class 
to only be referenced once such as some header information, so you have to be careful.

Struct 
A struct is simply a contiguous block of memory where each field lives at a fixed "offset" (distance) from the starting address ( like rsp or rbp)

Key Ways to Identify Variable Values:
Data Definition Directives: In the data segment, variables are defined with initial values using directives:
-	DB (Define Byte) - 1 byte
-	DW (Define Word) - 2 bytes
-	DD (Define Doubleword) - 4 bytes

Initialization with '?': A ? is used to reserve space without setting a specific value, making it uninitialized.

Instruction Tracing: To see when a value is set during execution, look for MOV (x86) or STR (ARM) instructions that move values from registers into the memory address associated with a variable name.

Arrays and Repetition: DUP can initialize multiple elements with the same value, such as marks * 9 dw 0, which sets nine elements to zero.

Or use dynamic analyze tool like GDB

Function tracking:

1. How a Single Variable Gets a Value

In the decompiler view, IDA maps the function’s return register (usually RAX/EAX on x64/x86) to a local variable.
Decompiler Output: v5 = get_status();
What’s happening under the hood: IDA sees the assembly call get_status followed by mov [rbp+var_10], eax. It recognizes that eax holds the return value and "collapses" the assembly into a direct C-style assignment.

2. Two Variables from the Same Function
Standard C functions usually return only one value. If you see two variables being "set" by one function call in IDA, it usually happens in one of two ways:

A. Pass-by-Reference (Pointers)
The most common way to "return" multiple values is by passing the addresses of variables as arguments.
Decompiler: v5 = get_data(&v6, &v7);
The Logic: Here, v5 is the formal return value (e.g., a success code), while v6 and v7 are modified inside the function because the function has their memory addresses.

B. Direct Register Returns (Optimized/Special Conventions)
Some compilers or custom calling conventions return values in multiple registers (e.g., RAX and RDX).
Decompiler: v5 = get_large_value(&v6); (Where v6 might appear as a "high part").
The Logic: IDA 9.2 is quite good at recognizing __pair types (like a 64-bit value returned as two 32-bit pieces) or __usercall conventions where you manually define which registers map to which variables.

3. Identifying the "Link" in IDA
To verify where a variable's value is coming from:
Click the variable: IDA will highlight all instances of that variable.
Check the assignment: Look for the = sign immediately following a function call.
Right-click -> Force call type: If the decompiler looks messy, you can manually fix the function prototype to tell IDA exactly how many values are being returned or modified via pointers.

**In static analysis with IDA 9.2, you can quickly identify how a function affects memory or variables by using Cross-References (Xrefs) and Data Flow Analysis. While breakpoints show you a single "snapshot" of data during execution, static analysis shows you every place that data could be touched.

1. The Quickest Way: Cross-References (Xrefs)
Cross-references are the static equivalent of a "trace" on a variable.
How to use: Click on a variable name or memory address and press X.
What it tells you: IDA will pop up a window listing every instruction that accesses that variable. It even classifies the access type:
r (Read): The function is using the variable's value.
w (Write): The function is setting or changing the variable's value. This is your "dynamic breakpoint" equivalent.
p (Pointer): The function is taking the address of the variable.

2. Global Type Xrefs (Ctrl+Alt+X)
If you are using the decompiler and want to see every function that modifies a specific structure field (like MyStruct->status), standard X might not show everything.
Shortcut: Press Ctrl+Alt+X on a field in the pseudocode.
Result: IDA will decompile other functions in the background to find where that specific field is modified across the entire program. 

3. Proximity Browser
For a visual "quick look" at how functions and data interact, use the Proximity Browser. 
How to use: Right-click a function or variable and select Proximity browser.
What it tells you: It creates a graph showing exactly which functions read from or write to specific global variables. This is the fastest way to see "Side Effects"—if calling Function A secretly modifies Variable B. 

4. Hex-Rays "Map to another variable"
If the decompiler is confusing two variables or you want to see if one value "flows" into another:
Shortcut: Use the = key (or right-click -> Map to another variable) in the pseudocode.
Use Case: This helps you unify local variables that IDA might have split, making it clear that a value from a function is being passed directly into another variable. 

5. Xref Graph and Tree (New in 9.2)
IDA 9.2 introduced enhanced Xref Graphs and Xref Trees and Xref Trees. These tools allow you to trace the "path" of a variable's value through multiple layers of function calls without having to manually jump back and forth between functions.


DLL (dynamic link library)
The process for reverse engineering a DLL is mostly the same as executables, but they are usually easier since you can see more function names. It's also more common to see debug symbols provided with DLLs than it is to see them with executables.

Imports, Exports, Modules
You've probably seen many function names that are all nonsense. As mentioned earlier, most function names do not survive through compilation since they are just there for human understanding. You may, however, notice that some names do exist. This could be because of two main reasons.

First, the tool recognizes the function and names it accordingly. IDA does this with FLIRT (Fast Library Identification and Recognition Technology) signatures. FLIRT signatures are used to identify standard library functions. 
The general idea of how they work is they search memory for a chunk of bytes that match a known chunk of bytes in a standard library function. 
Once a match is found, the function can be named accordingly. You can learn more about FLIRT signatures on the IDA/Hex-Rays website(opens in new tab). The main() function is a little more difficult since its signature is different for every program. 

However, IDA can still sometimes find it using some tricks. One commonality of the main() function is that it's called from the program entry point, usually towards the end. There's also usually a test against the return value of main() to determine if anything other than zero was returned. 
You can use that knowledge to help find the main() function, and there are several other ways as well.


Second, its name may be preserved because it's imported from or exported by a DLL. For a developer to use a function from a DLL the developer needs to know and be able to resolve the name of the function they want. Because of this, the names have to stay intact. The DLL can expose its function names through the DLL/PE header, library file, or header file (.h or .hpp).
The library and header files are not required, but they are usually included.

Imports are the functions the executable is using/importing from a DLL, and exports are the functions a DLL provides/exports. DLL's are known as dynamic-link libraries since they are loaded into memory once and can be loaded into any number of processes at any time without making any more copies. The Windows OS is built on DLLs.

Modules are essentially anything related to a process that import or export functions. For example, Loop.exe includes modules such as ntdll.dll, kernel32.dll, etc. If you were to run Loop.exe, while it is running Loop.exe itself is considered a module of the process.



Name Mangling/Decoration

C++ function overloading allows you to have two different functions with the same names that take different parameters. This becomes a problem when a DLL is exporting functions since the exported names will be the same. For developers, this problem is solved by using libraries and header files.
On a lower level, this problem is solved by mangling the names so they are unique.ALL exported C++ function names get mangled whether they have overrides or not.

Function mangling is also called function decoration, which is probably a more appropriate name just not as popular. Although the mangled names may look like random garbage, there is a method to the madness. Here is an example of a mangled function name: ??0?$_Yarn@D@std@@QEAA@PEBD@Z. As random as it may seem, it can be decoded. 
By de-mangling the name you can find the function type and parameter types. Different compilers use different mangling schemes, in this series of rooms everything uses the Microsoft C++ compiler and mangling scheme. You don't need to know how the schemes work since reverse engineering tools can decode them, but if you'd like here are some links.




Running DLL
When reverse engineering a DLL you may want to run it so you can analyze it in a debugger. This presents an obvious problem, you can't simply run a DLL. Here's a bit more detail on how DLLs work.

When a DLL is loaded, the function DllMain() is executed within the context of the process which loads the DLL. Here the DLL can run whatever code it wants.

You may have heard of DLL injection, this is one way it can be done. You can get the target process to call LoadLibrary() on your DLL which will cause DllMain() within your DLL to be executed within the context of the target process.

There's a program that comes with Windows called rundll32.exe which does pretty much that, it just loads your DLL making DllMain() execute. As a developer, you can make rundll32.exe execute functions within the DLL, but I don't think anyone does this.

For reverse engineers, what if we want to dynamically analyze a function within a DLL? The best way to do this is to write your own code which calls the function you're interested in. Without a library or header file, here's one way (there's probably a more elegant way) in which you could call a function within a DLL with only the .dll file. 
This does not include any error handling, it's only the code of interest. It's a call to a function called Add() within the DLL named DLL.DLL:

HMODULE dll = LoadLibraryA("DLL.DLL");
typedef void(WINAPI* Add_TypeDef)(int, int); // Add(int x, int y)
Add_TypeDef Add = (Add_TypeDef)GetProcAddress(dll, "Add_MangledName");
Add(1, 2);

Unless you have a header or library file, you will likely need to reverse engineer the function to find out what parameters are passed to it.












