Stack and heap are two distinct areas of RAM, and provide different characteristic.

Stack Memory (Local & Fast)
Purpose: Stores local variables, function parameters, and return addresses.
Access: Very fast access, cache-friendly.
Lifespan: Data is created when a function is called and automatically deleted when it returns. ( This is about stack frame )
Organization: Strict LIFO structure (like a pile of books).

Heap Memory (Dynamic & Flexible) 
Purpose: Stores objects, arrays, and data that require a longer lifespan or dynamic sizing (e.g., new objects in Java/C++).
Access: Slower than the stack.
Lifespan: Data exists until it is explicitly freed (like free in C) or removed by a garbage collector.
Organization: No strict order, dispersed throughout memory (can lead to fragmentation).

Stack frame

When call a function, it actualy create a new stack frame ( shadow space, etc and it is not create by a call, you know, as explain in Last file.) . And here, we gonna dive deeper into this !
There are two register, RSP ( had been talked about in first file ), and RBP (register base pointer )

Feature 	        RSP (Stack Pointer)                        	RBP (Base Pointer)
Primary Role	    Tracks the active top of the stack.	        Defines a fixed base for the current frame.
Movement	        Changes frequently (PUSH/POP/CALL).	        Usually stays fixed during function execution.
Usage	            Required for hardware stack operations.	    Optional (often omitted for optimization).
Addressing	      [rsp + offset] (offsets can change).	      [rbp - offset] (offsets remain constant).

The frame layout


Memory Address	            Data Item	                  Who is Responsible?	            Purpose
Higher	                    Arg 5, 6, ...              	Caller	                        Arguments that didn't fit in registers.
                            Shadow Space (32 bytes)	    Caller	                        Space for the callee to save RCX, RDX, R8, R9.
                            Return Address (8 bytes)	  call Instruction	              Where the CPU goes after ret.
                            Saved RBP (8 bytes)	        Callee (Prologue)	              Preserves the caller's frame pointer (optional).
                            Local Variables            	Callee (Prologue)	              Storage for internal function data.
                            Saved Registers	            Callee (Prologue)              	Preserves non-volatile registers like RBX, RSI.
                            Lower                                                      	(Current RSP)	—	The "top" of the stack.



Remind :16-Byte Alignment: On x64, the stack pointer (RSP) must be 16-byte aligned before making a CALL to another function. 
Since the CALL instruction pushes an 8-byte return address, the stack is usually 8-byte misaligned when a function begins its execution. 

But the saved RBP is 8 bit, so it is exactly 16 bit aligned
But because RBP is optional, 
That why, sometimes we see sub rsp, 28h and add rsp, 28h ( 40 bits)
( if we use rbp, we still need to sub 32 bits before call, then saved the rbp)

Heap: Is Warehouse in memory, store all kinds of things
While the stack is managed by the CPU, the heap is managed by a memory allocator (like malloc in C or new in C++).
1. The Allocator

You aren't just looking at raw memory; you're looking at how the Heap Manager (e.g., ptmalloc in Linux/glibc or the Windows Heap Manager) organizes it.
Chunks/Bins: The heap is divided into "chunks." When memory is freed, the allocator doesn't usually give it back to the OS immediately; it puts it into "bins" (freelist) to be reused later.
Metadata: Every chunk has a hidden header right before the pointer returned to the programmer. This header contains the size of the chunk and flags (like "Is the previous chunk in use?").

2. Dynamic Object Tracking
In RE, you’ll often see a pointer stored on the stack or in a register that points to an address on the heap.
Structs and Classes: If you see lea rdi, [rax+10h], the program is likely accessing a specific field inside a heap-allocated structure.
vTables (C++): This is huge. For polymorphic classes, the heap object starts with a pointer to a Virtual Method Table. Following this table is how you find the actual functions being called.

3. Allocation Patterns
Recognizing standard library calls is key to finding the heap:
malloc / calloc / realloc: The basic building blocks.
free: This is where things get interesting for security. If a program uses a pointer after it has been freed, you found a Use-After-Free (UAF) bug.

4. Heap Corruption (Exploitation)
Reverse engineers look for ways to "trick" the heap manager:
Heap Overflow: Writing past the end of a heap buffer to overwrite the metadata of the next chunk.
Double Free: Freeing the same pointer twice, which can corrupt the "bins" and potentially allow an attacker to write data to an arbitrary location in memory.
Heap Spraying: Filling the heap with specific data (like NOP sleds or shellcode) to make an exploit more reliable when the exact memory address is unpredictable.

5. Tools for the Heap
Since the heap is dynamic, static analysis (looking at code in IDA/Ghidra) is often not enough. You need Dynamic Analysis:
GDB with GEF/pwndbg: These extensions have specific commands (like heap chunks or bins) that visualize how the allocator is currently organized.
Valgrind / ASAN: These tools help identify leaks and memory corruption during execution.

So in the view of reverse engineering:

Stack RE: Focuses on Control Flow.
Heap RE: Focuses on Data Integrity and Object Lifetime (what is this data, and is it still valid?).



For convenience, let talk about what kind of variables is store in each section inside the memory.

1. The Stack (Local Variables)
The stack is for "automatic" variables. These are variables declared inside a function that only need to exist while that function is running. 

What goes here: Local integers, floats, and fixed-size arrays declared inside a function.
Lifetime: They are automatically "pushed" onto the stack when the function starts and "popped" (deleted) when the function returns.

Example:

void myFunction() {
    int x = 10;          // Stored on the Stack
    char buffer[100];    // Stored on the Stack
}

2. The Heap (Dynamic Allocation)
The heap is used when you need memory to persist even after a function ends, or when you don't know how much memory you'll need until the program is actually running. 

What goes here: Anything created using malloc(), calloc(), or realloc().
Lifetime: It stays there until you manually call free(). If you forget, you get a "memory leak".
Example:

int *ptr = malloc(sizeof(int)); // The *pointer* ptr is on the stack, 
                                // but the *integer* it points to is on the HEAP.

3. Static/Global Data (The "Data" and "BSS" Sections)
Variables that need to live for the entire duration of the program are not on the stack or the heap. 

Global variables: Declared outside any function.
Static variables: Declared with the static keyword.
Example:

int globalCount = 0;  // Stored in Data Segment (not stack or heap)

4. Text/Read-Only (Code & Literals)
This is where your compiled code and "hardcoded" values live. 

String Literals: Like the "Hello" from your previous question.
Constants: Variables marked const (sometimes). 


***
pointer and value.
what kind of data is saved into which area inside memory 
